+++
title = "Phase Stability of Mixed-Cation Alkaline-Earth Hexaborides: Insights from X-ray Diffraction and High-resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy"
date = 2017-02-28T13:04:15-07:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2017-02-28T13:04:15-07:00


# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The phase stability of mixed-cation alkaline-earth hexaborides is studied. These materials have the potential for use as hydrogen storage sources. The results show separation of the MB<sub>6</sub> phase into multiple solid solutions with varying compositions in ternary (Ba-Ca)B<sub>6</sub> and (Ba-Sr)B<sub>6</sub> powders. X-ray diffraction data contains peak splitting and asymmetry and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy confirms the presence of these phases in the form of homogenous nano-regimes in individual equilibrium. Thermal treatments ranging from 1000-1700°C enhance the overall homogeneity of the samples and merge the phases into one, indicating that the as-synthesized state is thermodynamically unstable as the collection of nano-regimes results in increased microstrain and lattice imperfections. Analysis of the chemical reactions that occur during synthesis suggests that the decomposition of the metal precursors (nitrates and carbonates) to metal oxides introduces variance into the formation process of mixed-cation hexaboride compounds, producing nano-regimes within the crystal lattice."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["J.T. Cahill", "M. Alberga", "D. Edwards", "S.T. Misture", "V.R. Vasquez", "O.A. Graeve"]
# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "TMS Annual Meeting Exhibition Academic Conference"
event_url = "http://www.tms.org/meetings/annual-17/AM17home.aspx"

# Location of event.
location = "San Diego, CA"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["thermodynamics","hexaborides"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Contributed"
    url = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++
